# Day 1, 10-09-2022

I really should make a personal website to track my projects.

Anyways, I've decided to make a chip8 emulator. I was inspired to do this from my experiences using gameboy and nintendo emulators as a kid
to play pokemon and kirby. I was intrigued by how the emulator was able to turn the hardware consoles into a piece of software to run on a
computer. Originally, I wanted to make a GBA emulator; however, after doing some searching online, it's best for me to start small and
build my skills up. Therefore, I'm starting with a simple chip8 emulator whose components and instruction set are small and simple.

To me, it seems that emulating is turning the hardware console into a piece of software that you can run on your computer. This software
is kind of like a virtual machine that "emulates" the console.

I remember looking for all the pokemon ROMs online, googling "Pokemon Emerald roms free online" or something of the sort. I never really understood
what the ROM files were; all I knew is that I needed to load a specific ROM associated with a specific game to play that game in my emulator.
This is actually not so far from how ROMs actually work. They're the files that contain the list of machine code instructions to execute to run
the game. Each instruction is 16 bits but we usually read the files in words of 8 bits (1 byte per word).

From here, I understood that I would need to create a program to read the ROM and interpret each instruction. Thus, I would be emulating the actual
console (chip8 in this case).

I studied the components of chip8 that I would have to keep track of. Then I pulled up a list of the instructions I would have to implement and
wrote functions for them. This is a good starting point.

At the end of the day, I think the general framework for creating an emulation goes as follows:
1. Research the details of the components of the hardware (stack, memory, pc, etc) and try to replicate this in code
2. Get a ROM for the hardware your trying to emulate and read it into memory. Print each instruction and play around with it.
I had a lightbulb moment when I loaded in the puzzle.rom file as a binary file. I loaded in each byte into a buffer and stored the buffer in my
memory variable. I printed each 2 bytes to analyze the instructions. The first instruction that I saw was 00E0 (CLS), which tells the machine to
clear the display. It was exciting because I knew I had read the binary file correctly and it was cool seeing the concepts put into reality.
3. Research the instruction set of the hardware and create functioins for each in the code; the instruction set will intertwine heavily with 
the components of the hardware that you replicated earlier.

Very general framework, but it helps me understand a little more how people go about creating emulations.