# 10-10-2022

I started off by coding a random generator to generate numbers between 0 - 255 because that functionality is done in the chip8 hardware.
I originally used srand(time(NULL)) to seed my generator and the rand() % 256 function to generate the random number; however, I was getting a terrible distribution of numbers. I did a little searching online and found a better way for C++11 versions and later using uniform_int_distribution:
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37840270/rand-not-generating-random-numbers-even-after-srandtimenull
- https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/numeric/random/uniform_int_distribution

I've added these references to my list on the README. 

I also worked on implementing drawing a sprite from memory onto the video array. I first needed to figure out what a sprite was. A sprite is a
group of bytes which are a binary representation of a desired graphic. In chip8, a sprite is always 8 bits in width but has a variable height from
1 to 15. Therefore, an 8 x n sprite corresponds to n bytes contiguous bytes in memory. Each individual bit that is 1 in the sprite represents
a pixel drawn to their corresponding location. Here's an example of the sprite depicting 0:
    11110000 0xF0 --> each bit represents a pixel on the screen
    10010000 0x90
    10010000 0x90
    10010000 0x90
    11110000 0xF0

If we want to draw a sprite starting at (x, y), we need to convert (x, y) into the index of that coordinate in our video array.
Video Index = y * VIDEO_WIDTH + x

VIDEO_WIDTH = 64
VIDEO_HEIGHT = 32

Sprites are XORed with the current video bit; if we want to draw a sprite bit on a video bit that's already on, a collision occurs and the 
video bit is set to 0 (because it was XORed). When a collision occurs, the VF register should be set to 1.

On a side note, there's a group of sprites representing hexadecimal 0 - F stored in memory 0x000 to 0x1FF (this memory is reserved for those
sprites). I haven't implemented this in my memory yet, but it's on the todo. Also, I have to make sure to modularize the way I extract
my bits from the opcode using a function for each extraction because I'm repeating certain extractions a lot. That's for next time!